
=How to See a Poem=

A Visual Way of Reading{{break}}
Poetry and Literature{{break}}
for People Who Are Not Sure They Like Them

==Foreword==

I wrote this book for people like me, who are intrigued by literature and poetry,
but who are so unmovably rooted in a world of facts, numbers and spreadsheets
(well, except for the occasional Friday night-out)
that they don't really know where to start.
In fact, I was so intrigued by literature that,
taking a side-step from my career that involves computers and websites and mathematics,
I went on to become a philologist in English language and literature,
and started a PhD researching English poetry.
Although this didn't let me earn a living, at least now I can confidently say
that a novel is not poetry, except when it is.

Straddling the worlds of letters on faded parchments and computer code on retina displays
I hope I can show you that literature isn't really frightening, and is actually quite fun,
and perhaps what I've got to say will also be interesting for someone who comes from the other side,
and cannot imagine the terror one can feel when facing a completely nonsensical collection of words
that makes everyone go 'Ooooh' and 'Aaaaah', but the only thing they can feel  is a desperate need
for at least a clue as to how they're supposed to react.

To do exactly that, I'll give you a number of down-to-earth tools with which you can start approaching
a piece of literary text, and which will hopefully open it up for you so that you can have a glimpse
at the rich tapestry behind true examples of this art.
At other times you'll encounter texts or poems that you don't feel are worthy of the name "art" or "literature",
and most of the time, you'll be right.
These tools will also give you a starting point to voice your concerns,
and in no time you'll find yourself confidently participating in lofty conversations about
the artistic merits of the latest bestseller or even the movie everyone told you to see.
In short, the aim of this book is to help you understand why you or other people
react to a piece of literature or art in the way they do.
Some literature, a bit of psychology, and tons of fun.
If you're intrigued, read on!

Will this really tell me everything an MA in literature would? you might ask.
No, of course it won't. The book won't take four years to read (hopefully).
Also, these tools are not generally something they teach you in college or university,
mainly because
people undertaking a degree in literature usually already go 'Ooooh' and 'Aaaaah',
so they don't think they need them.
So if you're one of those lucky people, you may still find something new in here.

And so, without further ado.

